# You can give up ten thousand times in life, but you must persist once in your life

NOTE: THIS IS A LIU JIAOLIAN POST ON 2023-03-18.

Bitcoin continued to make a strong breakthrough overnight, reaching $27,000 in the morning.

When Bitcoin rises rapidly, it often creates a kind of psychological pressure on people. Don't chase? Afraid of missing out. Chase it? And afraid of calling back.

Investment operations are always full of such entanglements. Constantly overcoming this kind of entangled and complicated mentality and emotions is for practice, until you are calm and take the weight lightly.

Stay sober in the midst of noise and indicators, and keep quiet in the ups and downs of position values.

The five colors are blinding, the five tones are deafening, the five flavors are refreshing, and the ups and downs are maddening.

Be tempted to endure and gain what I can't.

Under the attack of internal and external forces capable of disturbing the mind, one can still be as quiet as a virgin and move like a rabbit, which is for practice.

"We may have embarked on the road to recovery. From now until the next round of bull market, Bazijue (eight words) will be a good strategy to increase positions when it falls." On March 13, when Bitcoin was 22k, it was recorded in the internal reference of Liu Jiaolian.

People in the market are easy to be domesticated by the market and acquire wrong behavioral inertia. When the market turns, it can be overwhelming.

For example, after a whole year of decline in 2022, those who increase their positions on dips will suffer continuous increase, decline, increase, and further decline, and finally be educated so that they dare not continue the horoscope.

In this way, the bottom increase stage of 16-19k in the two months at the end of the year will be missed.

In this way, one dare not increase my position when it pulls back to 22k on 2/10, dare not increase my position when it plummets to 20k on 3/10, and dare not increase his position when the roller coaster dives to 24k on 3/15... waiting for Bitcoin to soar into the sky, when breaking through 27k strongly, he feel missed.

He miss it again and again, worrying again and again.

Until, finally, he made up his mind and increased his position at a high position. He tasted the sweetness several times first, so he added more and bet more each time. Then the market turned and fell, down to even lower prices than when the bet was made. Losses are painful. The desire to get rid of it became stronger and stronger as the price fell, and finally it was so strong that He cut his leg and cleared the position to get rid of the pain in the heart. After cutting the leg, the market began to confirm, bottomed out, falsely rebounded, and bottomed out. While you were still waiting for a lower price, it suddenly turned and entered recovery.

Life is a big cycle. Investment is one small cycle after another.

If you have more reincarnation, you may be able to understand why one of the benefits of becoming a Buddha mentioned in "Journey to the West" when it leads people to Buddha is called being able to get rid of the suffering of the six realms of reincarnation (cycles).

Reincarnation interrupts the accumulation of compound interest, and every time it is beaten back to its original shape, it starts all over again. The compound interest effect will determine that after one or two decades, two people with the same starting point will be in the sky and the other underground.

Even if a person only improves by 1% every day, he will improve a terrible (1 + 0.01) ^ 3650 = 5929448572069177 times in 10 years and 3650 days!

And another person who is constantly reincarnated may still be standing still.

The difficulty of practice is that progress is not monotonous and linear. No one can improve by 1% every day.

Progress, and reincarnation, are very similar in appearance. Day after day, ups and downs, ups and downs. Confusing, impossible to tell.

Grasp the invariants of the variables, accumulate irreversible things that increase in value over time rather than depreciate, persist for a long enough time, and persist from quantitative change to qualitative change.

You can give up ten thousand times in life, but you must have once a lifetime of persistence.

This lifetime of persistence makes life full of meaning.


* * *

Extra: The full book of "History of Bitcoin" has been released on leanpub https://leanpub.com/history-of-bitcoin , and opensea https://opensea.io/assets/ethereum/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/105485037225361479373965289160919783096944397316814880893051094763402285810664

nostr: npub1dlwqsauewd56dekrnuxh8xukvg7pgeelwp39qah8ts5x28tmf7pqp5tcp3
twitter: https://twitter.com/liujiaolian
discord: https://discord.gg/9pGpRgUYPp
substack: https://blockcoach.substack.com/

(Disclaimer: The content of this article does not constitute any investment advice. Cryptocurrency is a very high-risk product, and there is a risk of going zero at any time. Please participate carefully and be responsible for yourself.)
