# Dip Suddenly Befell

Original title: When you are still chatting with ChatGPT, someone has already made millions of dollars with AIGC

* * *

Overnight, Bitcoin was stable and still oscillating above 23k. At the moment of publishing the article, the sharp drop happened unexpectedly, and Bitcoin fell to above 22k at an extremely high speed.

* * *

AIGC is an acronym for AI Generated Content (AI (artificial intelligence) generated content).

Yep, you'd never guess, how many couples of parentheses I'll write.

Maybe one day, our concepts become more and more complicated to explain, and I will write the article like LISP language.

* * *

The picture below is an erotic picture generated by AI [1].

20230303-nft
Figure: AI Generated Nude Portrait #7 Frame #184

Maybe you think it's nothing.

Even the mottled colors, distorted postures, and looming artistic elements can't make you feel throbbing in your heart.

But when you know that such a small picture is sold at a price of 300 ETH (about 1 million US dollars at the deal time) on superrare, you may feel a little bit of a shock.

What's more exciting is that there are more than a dozen AIGC pictures in this series.

* * *

When the public is still cheering for ChatGPT to generate a few flattering jokes, someone has already made money with AIGC.

Not a small amount of money, but a lot of money.

Of course, that was 2 years ago.

* * *

AIGC is just desperately trying to piece together the most possible correct text based on the above prompts.

But AI doesn't know what is right.

The correct standard is in the hands of people.

If the standard is mastered by AI itself, must it have been too lazy to generate anything?

* * *

After all the hard work, humans finally taught AI how to learn context.

But people don't like context.

People love the new and dislike the old.

This is especially true of affections.

* * *

Money is (one of) the most context-free things.

Comrade Xie, a master of pragmatism, said: Two gold bars are placed in front of you. Tell me, which one is noble and which one is despicable?

Has it been submitted to the organization, the organization must approve it.

Everyone loves money. Determined and deep.

* * *

SHA-256 hashing is also context-free.

Satoshi Nakamoto said: This is not like a racing car, the fastest one always wins. Each hash operation is independent of each other. The probability of finding the correct answer is proportional to the computing power of the miners.

Hash operations make bitcoins.

* * *

If you are poor, you'd better take good care of yourself and family. Food, clothing, housing and transportation.

If you become rich, you can benefit the world. With the world in mind and the common people in mind.

What the common people ask for is nothing more than food, clothing, housing and transportation.

The purpose of human is human itself.

* * *

Food and sex are human natures, said by Confucius.

Human nature, one is food, and the other is sex.

The pleasure of the spirit, the resonance of the soul, the happiness of the senses.

Just as art is an infinite combination of simple elements, a SHA-256 hash is a (nearly) infinite combination of 0s and 1s.

Art touches the senses, money drives the spirit, and hash moves the soul.

* * *

The soul comes from the heart, not from the brain.

No matter how many neural links are simulated, it is heartless.

I'm not looking for the next most likely word, but rather letting consciousness flow freely through time.

Language is just a tool used by the brain to express the heart, not the heart itself.

* * *

As the sparks are dying out, the music stops abruptly.

* * *

Reference:
- [1] https://superrare.com/artwork/ai-generated-nude-portrait-7-frame-184-374

* * *

Extra: The full book of "History of Bitcoin" has been released on leanpub https://leanpub.com/history-of-bitcoin

(Disclaimer: The content of this article does not constitute any investment advice. Cryptocurrency is a very high-risk product, and there is a risk of zeroing at any time. Please participate carefully and be responsible for yourself.)
